Update template to improve developer experience (#34)
Kotlin/multiplatform-library-template: README.md

Note that no other actions or tools usually required for the library development are set up, such as [tracking of backwards compatibility]
(https://kotlinlang.org/docs/jvm-api-guidelines-backward-compatibility.html#tools-designed-to-enforce-backward-compatibility), explicit API mode,
licensing, contribution guideline, code of conduct and others. You can find a guide for best practices for designing Kotlin libraries [here.](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/api-guidelines-introduction.html)

## How to publish?

This guide describes the steps of publishing a library built with Kotlin Multiplatform to the [Maven Central repository](https://central.sonatype.com/). To publish your library, you’ll need to:

* Set up credentials, including an account on Maven Central and a PGP key to use for signing
* Configure the publishing plugin in your library’s project
* Provide your credentials to the publishing plugin so it can sign and upload your artifacts
* Run the publication task, either locally or using continuous integration

This guide assumes that you are:

> - Creating an open-source library
> - Using macOS or Linux. If you are a Windows user, use [GnuPG or Gpg4win](https://gnupg.org/download) to generate a key pair.
> - Either not registered on Maven Central yet, or have an existing account that’s suitable for [publishing to the Central Portal](https://central.sonatype.org/publish-ea/publish-ea-guide/) (created after March 12th, 2024, or migrated to the Central Portal by their support)
> - Publishing your library in a GitHub repository
> - Using GitHub Actions for continuous integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creating an open-source library.
- Using macOS or Linux. If you are a Windows user, use [GnuPG or Gpg4win](https://gnupg.org/download) to generate a key pair.
- Either not registered on Maven Central yet, or have an existing account that’s suitable for [publishing to the Central Portal](https://central.sonatype.org/publish-ea/publish-ea-guide/) (created after March 12th, 2024, or migrated to the Central Portal by their support).
- Publishing your library in a GitHub repository.
- Using GitHub Actions for continuous integration.
```

minor grammar nitpick

Most of the steps here are still applicable if you’re using a different setup, but there might be some differences you need to account for. An [important limitation](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform-publish-lib.html#host-requirements) is that Apple targets must be built on a machine with macOS.

> Throughout this guide, we’ll use the [https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/fibonacci](https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/fibonacci) repository as an example. You can refer to the code of this repository to see how the publishing setup works. Don’t forget to **replace all example values with your own** as you’re configuring your project**.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this guide, we’ll use the [https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/fibonacci](https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/fibonacci) repository as an example. You can refer to the code of this repository to see how the publishing setup works. Don’t forget to **replace all example values with your own** as you’re configuring your project.
```

2. Copy the Verification Key displayed.
3. Create a new DNS TXT record with the verification key as its contents. See [Maven Central’s FAQ](https://central.sonatype.org/faq/how-to-set-txt-record/) for more information on how to do this with various domain registrars.
4. Navigate back to Maven Central, and click on the Verify Namespace button. After a successful verification, you can delete the TXT record you’ve created.

#### Generate a Key Pair

Artifacts published to Maven Central [must be signed with a PGP signature](https://central.sonatype.org/publish/requirements/gpg/), which allows users to validate the origin of artifacts.

To get started with signing, you’ll need to generate a key pair:

* The **private key** is used to sign your artifacts, and should never be shared with others
* The **public key** can be used by others to validate the signature of the artifacts, and should be published

The `gpg` tool that can manage signatures for you is available from [their website](https://gnupg.org/download/index.html). You can also install it using package managers such as [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

> | `brew install gpg` |
> | :---- |
> 
> Generate a key pair with the following command, and fill in the required details when prompted.
> 
> | `gpg --full-generate-key` |
> | :---- |

Reviewer: It looks strange that these commands are inside of tables... is there a reason for this?

If they're in codeblocks then IntelliJ will add a handy 'run' gutter icon.

<img width="191" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4acf3ee5-5984-4396-b0a2-3e136a8b9d81">

````suggestion
```bash
brew install gpg
```

Generate a key pair with the following command, and fill in the required details when prompted.

```bash
gpg --full-generate-key
```
````

Choose the recommended defaults for the type of key to be created. You can leave these selections empty and press Enter to accept the default values.

> \> At the time of writing, this is `ECC (sign and encrypt)` with `Curve 25519`. Older versions of `gpg` might default to `RSA` with a `3072` bit key size.

Reviewer: Why is the `>` quote marker escaped with a backslash?

Suggestion: What about using a [GitHub admonition instead](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925)?

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> At the time of writing, this is `ECC (sign and encrypt)` with `Curve 25519`. Older versions of `gpg` might default to `RSA` with a `3072` bit key size.
```

You will be asked for your real name, email, and a comment. You can leave the comment empty.

| `Please select what kind of key you want:`<br>`(1) RSA and RSA`  <br> `(2) DSA and Elgamal`  <br> `(3) DSA (sign only)`  <br> `(4) RSA (sign only)`  <br> `(9) ECC (sign and encrypt) *default*`  <br> `(10) ECC (sign only)   `  <br> `(14) Existing key from card`  <br> ` Your selection? 9`  <br><br> `Please select which elliptic curve you want:`  <br> `(1) Curve 25519 *default*`  <br> `(4) NIST P-384`  <br> `(6) Brainpool P-256`  <br> `Your selection? 1 `  <br><br> `Please specify how long the key should be valid.`  <br> `0 = key does not expire`  <br> `<n>  = key expires in n days`  <br> `<n>w = key expires in n weeks`  <br> `<n>m = key expires in n months`  <br> `<n>y = key expires in n years`  <br> `Key is valid for? (0) 0`  <br> `Key does not expire at all`   <br><br> `Is this correct? (y/N) y `  <br> `GnuPG needs to construct a user ID to identify your key.`|

> |:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer: Using a Markdown table here is strange, and is rendered peculiarly in IJ (although that's probably a bug on IJ's side).

<img width="441" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/50f075a6-62d9-4a33-b923-2ee13770565e">

- `MAVEN_CENTRAL_PASSWORD` and `MAVEN_CENTRAL_PASSWORD` are the values generated by the Central Portal website in the [Generate User Token](#generate-the-user-token) section.
- `SIGNING_KEY_ID` is **the last 8 characters** of your signing key’s identifier.
- `SIGNING_PASSWORD` is the passphrase you’ve provided when generating your signing key.
- `GPG_KEY_CONTENTS` should contain the contents of your GPG private key file, which you’ve created earlier in the [Export your private key](#export-your-private-key) section.

#

![](/images/image5.png)

Note again that the names used for these secrets must match those used by the workflow that accesses their values.

#### Create a release on GitHub

With the workflow and secrets set up, you’re now ready to [create a release](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository#creating-a-release) that will trigger the publication of your library.

Go to your GitHub repository’s main page, and click on Releases in the menu in the right sidebar.

![](/images/image3.png)

Click *Draft a new release*.

![](/images/image7.png)

> Each release creates a new tag. Set the name for the tag to be created, and set a name for the release (these may be identical). Note that setting a version here does not change the version of your coordinates configured in your `build.gradle.kts` file, so you should update that version before creating a new release.

Reviewer: I haven't used the vanniktech plugin, but usually the projects group/name/version are automatically picked up, so they shouldn't need to be specified twice.

I think that recommending that they are specified twice could be a slight touch overkill, however, I recognise that sometimes being explicit is nice, even if it's unnecessary.

So, I would like to investigate to see just setting `group = "..."` and `version = "..."` is enough, and if so, then remove the duplicate config. But if you think being explicit is good, then we can leave it as is.

The checkboxes below allow you to mark a release as a pre-release (useful for alpha, beta, or RC versions of a library), or to set the release as the latest available one:

![](/images/image6.png)

Click the *Publish release* button to create the new release. This will immediately show up on your GitHub repository’s main page.

Click the Actions tab on the top of your GitHub repository. Here you’ll see the new workflow that was triggered by the GitHub release. Click it to see the outputs of the publication task.

After this task completes successfully, navigate to the [Deployments](https://central.sonatype.com/publishing/deployments) dashboard. You should see a new deployment here. This deployment will be in the *pending* and *validating* states for some time while Maven Central performs checks on it.

Once your deployment moves to a *validated* state, you should see that it contains all the artifacts you’ve uploaded. If everything looks correct, click the *Publish* button to release these artifacts.

![](/images/image2.png)

> Note that it will take some time (about 15-30 minutes, usually) after the release for the artifacts to be available publicly on Maven Central. Also note that the library may be available for use before the website is updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it will take some time (about 15-30 minutes, usually) after the release for the artifacts to be available publicly on Maven Central.
Also note that the library may be available for use before they are indexed on [the Maven Central website](https://central.sonatype.com/).
```

There’s also another task available which both uploads and releases the artifacts automatically once the the deployment is verified, without having to manually release them on the website:

| `./gradlew publishAndReleaseToMavenCentral` |
| :---- |

**Et voilà, you have successfully published your library to Maven Central.**

> 

Reviewer: What about having a 'Next steps' section?

E.g.

- Share your library with the Kotlin Community in the `#feed` channel in the [Kotlin Slack](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/) (To sign up visit https://kotl.in/slack)
- Add [shield.io badges](https://shields.io/badges/maven-central-version) to your README.

You will be asked for your real name, email, and a comment. You can leave the comment empty.

```bash
Please select what kind of key you want:
    (1) RSA and RSA
    (2) DSA and Elgamal
    (3) DSA (sign only)
    (4) RSA (sign only)
    (9) ECC (sign and encrypt) *default*
    (10) ECC (sign only)
    (14) Existing key from card
Your selection? 9
Please select which elliptic curve you want:
    (1) Curve 25519 *default*
    (4) NIST P-384
    (6) Brainpool P-256
Your selection? 1

Please specify how long the key should be valid.
    0 = key does not expire
    <n>  = key expires in n days
    <n>w = key expires in n weeks
    <n>m = key expires in n months
    <n>y = key expires in n years
Key is valid for? (0) 0
Key does not expire at all

`Is this correct? (y/N) y
GnuPG needs to construct a user ID to identify your key.
```

You will be asked for a passphrase to encrypt the key, which you have to repeat. Keep this passphrase stored securely and privately. You’ll be using it later to access the private key.

Let’s take a look at the key we’ve created with the following command:

```bash

> gpg --list-keys` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gpg --list-keys
```

Run the following command to upload your public key using `gpg`, **substituting your own keyid** in the parameters:

```bash

> gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --send-keys F175482952A225BFC4A07A715EE6B5F76620B385CE` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --send-keys F175482952A225BFC4A07A715EE6B5F76620B385CE
```

```kotlin
android {
     namespace = "io.github.kotlinhandson.fibonacci"
}
```

#### Set up the publishing plugin

This guide uses [vanniktech/gradle-maven-publish-plugin](https://github.com/vanniktech/gradle-maven-publish-plugin) to help with publications to Maven Central. You can read more about the advantages of the plugin [here](https://vanniktech.github.io/gradle-maven-publish-plugin/#advantages-over-maven-publish). See the [plugin’s documentation](https://vanniktech.github.io/gradle-maven-publish-plugin/central/) to learn more about its usage and available configuration options.

To add the plugin to your project, add the following line in the plugins block, in your library module’s `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
plugins {
    id("com.vanniktech.maven.publish") version "0.29.0" 
}
```

*Note: for the latest available version of the plugin, check its [releases page](https://github.com/vanniktech/gradle-maven-publish-plugin/releases).*

In the same file, add the following configuration. Customize all these values appropriately for your library.

```kotlin

> mavenPublishing {`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mavenPublishing {
```

Once your deployment moves to a *validated* state, you should see that it contains all the artifacts you’ve uploaded. If everything looks correct, click the *Publish* button to release these artifacts.

![](/images/published_on_maven_central.png)

Note that it will take some time (about 15-30 minutes, usually) after the release for the artifacts to be available publicly on Maven Central.
Also note that the library may be available for use before they are indexed on [the Maven Central website](https://central.sonatype.com/).

There’s also another task available which both uploads and releases the artifacts automatically once the the deployment is verified, without having to manually release them on the website:

```bash
./gradlew publishAndReleaseToMavenCentral` |
```

**Et voilà, you have successfully published your library to Maven Central.**

# Next steps
- Share your library with the Kotlin Community in the `#feed` channel in the [Kotlin Slack](https://kotlinlang.slack.com/) (To sign up visit https://kotl.in/slack.)

> - Add [shield.io badges](https://shields.io/badges/maven-central-version) to your README.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add [shield.io badges](https://shields.io/badges/maven-central-version) to your README.
- Create a documentation site for your project using [Writerside](https://www.jetbrains.com/writerside/).
- Share API documentation for your project using [Dokka](https://kotl.in/dokka).
```

I thought of a couple of other links to add.
